The signal protocol provides several services
confidentiality
integrity
authentication
participant consistency
destination validation
forward secrecy
backward secrecy (aka future secrecy)
causality preservation
message unlinkability
message repudiation
participation repudiation
asynchronicity.[47]

Confidentiality: Only the intended recipients are able to
read a message. Specifically, the message must not be readable
by a server operator that is not a conversation participant.

Integrity: No honest party will accept a message that has
been modified in transit.

Authentication: Each participant in the conversation re-
ceives proof of possession of a known long-term secret from
all other participants that they believe to be participating in
the conversation. In addition, each participant is able to verify
that a message was sent from the claimed source.

Participant Consistency: At any point when a message is
accepted by an honest party, all honest parties are guaranteed
to have the same view of the participant list.

Destination Validation: When a message is accepted by an
honest party, they can verify that they were included in the set
of intended recipients for the message.

Forward Secrecy: Compromising all key material does not
enable decryption of previously encrypted data.

Backward Secrecy: Compromising all key material does
not enable decryption of succeeding encrypted data. This
property is also often called future secrecy [43]. The terms
are controversial and vague in literature [44]–[46].

Causality Preserving: Implementations can avoid display-
ing a message before messages that causally precede it.


Message Unlinkability: If a judge is convinced that a
participant authored one message in the conversation, this does
not provide evidence that they authored other messages.

Message Repudiation: Given a conversation transcript and
all cryptographic keys, there is no evidence that a given
message was authored by any particular user. We assume that
the accuser has access to the session keys because it is trivial
to deny writing a plaintext message when the accuser cannot
demonstrate that the ciphertext corresponds to this plaintext.
We also assume that the accuser does not have access to the
accused participant’s long-term secret keys because then it is
simple for the accuser to forge the transcript (and thus any
messages are repudiable).

Participation Repudiation: Given a conversation transcript
and all cryptographic key material for all but one accused
participant, there is no evidence that the honest participant
was in a conversation with any of the other participants.
